I'm here with John Beasley. Dr. Beasley is a professor of family medicine and coordinator of the iPractice Collaborative, which is an initiative that spans the University of Wisconsin Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering and the School of Medicine and Public Health. John, we spend a lot of time training future physicians in medical knowledge and procedural skills, but not a lot of time teaching information mastery or how to use the new technologies that are really integral to patient care, with the result that there might be rapid changes in the way that we deliver care that happen in an unexamined way. And there might be efficient and effective technologies, like for example, dictation, that are lost. I know you're a big proponent of dictating in the presence of the patient. Why is that? Well, I think there are two parts to that, really. The first part, and maybe the most important, is dictating at all, because that's when you form narrative and you think through things and you create a narrative note that hopefully will make sense to your partners. The part about dictating with the patient is it gives them a chance to understand what your thinking is, to validate it or correct it if need be. And really, to me, it's both a time and money saver, too. In the sense of time, how much time is saved? A lot. I can give you a micro experiment I did with a patient of mine who was a post-hospital follow-up, late 70s. He had seven concurrent comorbidities, but I had 30 minutes, so I wasn't time pressured with him. And the dictation, which was part of that 30 minutes, was 3 minutes and 33 seconds to do his note. Then, out of curiosity, once the note had been transcribed by UW, I went back and I typed the same note myself. And I'm good. I'm over 50 words a minute. And it took me 13 minutes and 20 seconds, 9 minutes longer, to type that same note. That wasn't composing, it was just transcribing. I then asked a skilled Dragon user to try the same note, and for him it took him a bit over 6 minutes, so still twice as long with Dragon as to dictate into a handheld device. But there's always been the argument that transcription costs more. Well...
